announce that we are order at
716 and we are here again since it's on
ort now to hear the application uh from
the town of Anover acting through the
Anover field committee for relief from
section 112 of the Anover Zing
regulations the applicant is Seeking a
reduction and the front yard setb from
50 to 30 feet so as to allow for the
construction of a pavilion as part of
the overall improvements to the site
which include the construction of
pickleball cours the installation of two
Place Gates and Associated improvements
I know why sc's
here I you
it's hi everybody good evening I'm
Christine mzo I'm here with Scott pan
in good want to make sure I found out
correctly uh we are on the and over
field committee uh we have been working
on this plan to do improvements at FP
Long Hill Fields uh we received a seep
Grant which is a small town economic
assistance program um funded by the
state for uh
$500,000 um the town is going to match
in kinded with
150,000 of um not monetary but Labor uh
Public Works is going to do a good chunk
of the project um and with that we are
planning to do parle balls a pavilion
two playgrounds we are extending
irrigation um from the side of where the
soccer fields are across the street to
where the softball fields are they would
like to have some water over there I
think just uh some access to water to
keep the fields dry uh you know for dust
conditions and cleaning and whatnot um
so we have that as our project and we
are looking for a variance uh to install
the
Pavilion let's see here have the plan up
your close
yeah do you want to come up the line is
even small to see on the big screen I
blew it up on my computer you did oh
perfect oh perfect so did you find the
line so is that it's right this line
right here so if you can this little
this box is the
Pavilion the there's a line it's OT set
back which is measured from the center
of the road over and it lands right down
the center of the Pavilion oh I see oh
we are asking for a variance to have the
setback be at 30 ft so the pav so we can
construct The Pavilion as part of
project so
[Music]
question right here yes I so I I figured
that out next to it where it says remove
oh that so this is an existing well that
is going to be abandoned there's a
concrete cap on it and then there is the
existing
that's also going to
be yeah and this is the footprint of the
Pavilion and then this is going to be
the footprint of where the swing sets go
the swing sets take up actually a very
small
area most of the playground we couldn't
this takes such a large area because you
the perimeter around the the swings that
down we just had we just walked off the
area just so we would know in any future
time if there was anything to be brought
into the site nothing can beov in that Z
just conditions so we just in this area
is also going once this there just going
to be one line two days of there the P
yes what is it is it going to be open on
all four sides see there is a drawing um
I don't know if you want to scroll
through it yet Wayne uh it's it's uh
probably one of the last sheets of the
second to last sheet
has the um the footprint of the Pavilion
and how the book um I yeah it's going to
be open on all sides it's going to have
a concrete floor um you feel like we're
trying to accommodate everybody in town
all these groups we got people play
pickle ball we have families that have
have want the playground we have this
excess area here this is going to be an
extension of the paved area that's on
the pick a ball for with nothing on it
which is going to allow for any use
Street off basketball any type of yes
yeah Ro or you know just a smooth area
and we wanted to make we really wanted
the Pavilion because it would
accommodate everybody their luns there
they could be rentals for some to have a
birthday party or something along those
lines or if they wanted to teach you
over there in the war month but to be
able to use it for events just shade
those attend you know babysitting
grandkids at the park or kids at the
park a shaded area is that something
that would come the
guys yes yes so that
something and I think the
pickle Pi in any type of rental of the
Pavilion would have to go so this used
to be parking right here right no the
parking's always been up here but this
has kind of been a gravel parking if you
can see see these old Boulders here yes
there's where the old Boulders are so
the the gravel goes all the way up to
there now we're actually going to pull
it in um because there's it's such a
large area here it almost gets used it's
not functional and people kind of drive
all the way around so we're going to
we're going to set it up you know as an
actual
parking
um huh yeah so I was I was kind of I
thought in my mind so is this like
wooded area that's going to be cleared
right here no this is right now it's
cleared until see this little existing
bubble line and then it goes over there
this is all completely open this this
whole area with the pickleball cour used
to be where the town R so it's it's
excavated it's a lowl area uh it's a
little over compacted that area does
flood during rain events and that is
another reason why our placement of the
Pavilion
here this is that Ridge this is the
soccer fields and there's the lowline
area here and uh so we tried to put
these just because if you're pouring the
slab you just you don't want heaving or
cracking with the moisture we understand
that the pickle ball cords are going to
experience some flooding um hopefully
not to a great degree um but you know
you have to just B it out I they built
harer you know the area down by the
water the walkways C under waterer clean
andan yeah so we going to make sure we
have we've set up the structure for the
pickleball courts to have a nice subbase
under there so it's going to f drain and
just
main not concession it's not concession
there's no kitchen there's no bathroom
there's no running
we don't have any water um we are going
to be running irrigation there's an
irrigation line right here um here we go
here it is over to the ball yeah so this
is an existing well that we're going to
tap water and get water over to the ball
field but it's not pullable it's just
something that spr the fields down it up
y yes so I know Joan speaking for you a
littleit here you're you raed your
question to me earlier I have is going
to be a solid building with kids run to
get snacks and stuff like that but since
it's all open I'm not as worried about
this road here my kids won't be
running be crowed around and sping not
that it's a busy
road right so yeah our only we are going
to maintain the Run of Boulders we're
going to utilize everyone that we have
just because it allows public work to be
able to get in there if they need to we
do want to eventually probably have some
type of portet put there so it needs to
be in an area that's protected but so
that the company can come and empty it
once a week or their systems work um so
having these here makes it flexible for
Public Works to get in if they need to
the these areas this uh this is a
concrete walkway um this area is just a
grid that's going to be under the soil
with a um a gravel type base on and I
think some top soil on top that's going
to look like lawn but it's going to
allow Public Works to be able to drive
down this sidewalk down here to be able
to get to the trail that's over here or
to be able to get in here to add wood
chips in the future or anything that
needs to be done if they flooding on the
courts and it needs to be cleaned out we
have a double wide gate on the far side
of the pickleball court so they you come
in with equipment to clean it off um so
we're trying to make it as functional as
usable and if you try to put follow in
you totally limit construction put to be
able to come and repair or fix or do
anything but the boulders and you can't
through them and they really are they an
obstacle that everybody can see clearly
and um it keeps people on the right side
yeah any other questions um I I have a
question so with regard to why you're
before
us and iume you've thought through this
but why is it's not possible to shave 20
ft and just ship stuff over a little bit
so that you don't have to deal with
getting varant yeah so we did think
about that I will put out here
um so right now um the existing wood
line comes here so we are clearing back
to allow for the driving of um the the
public works vehicles to be able to get
to the access to the walkway which which
begins right here if you can see this is
the gravel path so our thought was if we
move it back there is a burn here that
protects the river when it's during Peak
flow from even inundating this this area
even more than it is um we didn't want
to cut into it we didn't want to because
it would allow mold water in uh during
those times where we have extreme rain
events um also we wanted to make sure
that the people utilize these walkways
don't feel like they're pinched like
they have to get around the playground
to be able to get to it we just were're
trying to keep that area prominent
because we wanted to still get used we
may be able to put some signage down
there in the future you know directing
people how to go and how to utilize the
area this is a drop off right here yeah
goes off to the river push back as
far but even just like shaving a few
feet off of the existing structures like
that playground area to the left there
so it's not not possible to like there
are some requirements from the
playground um companies for safety as to
how much space you need around all the
play equipment and so we're really maxed
out with the limitations there to
provide a fence so that kids aren't
running down into the river or out into
the street and so there has to be
certain clearances there and we've
walked the site with multiple playground
equipment companies and this was the we
went through a couple designs of how to
place the playground equipment this was
the most efficient use of the space and
I don't know if you were standing up
here when we were all at this time but
for example this area this large area is
32 feet by 36 feet and it's only going
to have two bays of swings which are
forc um but and it's only going to be
one line down here but this whole entire
area cannot have anything obstructing it
um for clearance requirements
Fromm for the safety requirements ofu
so they just it takes up a lot of space
um pinching it down 5T will still not
get us out of get this part out
um so we thought it was our best measure
and the other thing that we also had
notice I mean just we have the handicap
parking here that um for them to be
closest to the walkway to be able to go
either towards the pickle ball area the
playground but this also gets them as
close to the Pavilion as well um so I
really feel like it's going to
accommodate anybody in town that wants
to be able to utilize it which is
nice has anybody from the uh the housing
across the street had
any we sent out letters um the letters
went out for for this meeting and we
also sent out letters for the um
Planning and Zoning in the wetlands um
and we had positive response okay which
is great they were not always POS when
we were going into the building of the
fields and doing stuff over there so I
just you were part of that soccer field
thing there early on I was the official
committee but I remember we got some
negative feedback from them about balls
going across the
street noise and lights and stuff
okay don't you have
questions yeah I just want to
point actually owns that soccer that
softball field right yeah yeah yeah oh
yeah the town rents that space I think
it's a 2year lease or something like
that so every two years it has to be
removed just so you're aware this
there's an application before the
planning zoning commission currently for
a special permit for this project um and
public hearing had been extended there's
a couple of of issues that have to be
addressed and this is one of them um the
commission planning Zing commission
could not vote um to approve it
with a condition for instance um so this
is they up here I'm sorry that's why
they
here because when when they and that's
why we met Earl earlier um other than
the fact that Tuesday and Wednesday we
met before The planning zoning
commission Mee meets next Tuesday okay
so that that question can be answered
whether various is is be granted yeah
yeah the
aside from other things that need to be
completed uh on the set of plans for
Planning and Zoning they couldn't make
the variance the condition of approval
that's not allowed so they need to know
if if it's allowed on the plan
or how many does anybody know how many
housing units
are down there I could
look maybe six maybe something like six
I me it's not a lot no there's like 30
30 32 something like that 32 36 it's not
like 100 oh no and I
mean
don't just a little bit of traffic
that's going to go past the place is the
only thing that I would be concerned
about you know being close to the road
but
yeah yeah it's not that many cars per
day go by there
public transportation although that will
bring some more traffic but for the I
mean when the soccer fields were used uh
when that front parking lot was full
they would park all the way along the
Riverside and just all the way down Ro
they there so this will be actually
making some defined parking for this
area as a clear place to pull in off the
road yeah makes sense and is that uh
just kinding to Rack my brain a little
for the layout of the the that wooden
fence around the fields is that is the
Pavilion going to be within the area
that or does it stop before that I the
fence stops
before yeah it stops right here I think
that's it the timber wheel here all
right and then it's the boulders yeah
and then it's the boulders okay swing
area yes is fenced in no the swing is
not going to be fenced in it's such a
large area that to fence it in would
really make that not usable I mean if
there is a time where there The Pavilion
would be in use and there was no one on
the swings there's more area for people
to picnic or what have you the
playground spin in but not the swing are
correct and we definitely wanted the the
parents in the playground that were part
of the playground committee that kind of
went through this um just having the
river right adjacent to it we kind of
were weighing out some Town's fences in
their playground some don't having the
river right there if you have more than
one child and one tries to get away and
runs down by the river just having it
fenced in just keeps it safe and
sure enjoy and putting PE putting the
two playscape structures within one
fenced area so because we did kind of
weigh that out go ahead yeah we did have
so initially we actually have one play
this playground here this playground up
here and then the Pavilion in the middle
but um it was too py and if you had a
child that was too small who at the
little one and then one at the big
one and yeah too many little fences all
over the place that we just decided to
try to combine it and slide that to the
road and then we thought well that that
this is gonna be more advant
advantageous for everybody and then we
didn't have room for swings we were also
trying to Max efficiency and get as much
equipment as possible to serve as many
demographics and also I think we
couldn't put a paved
concrete structure because of the
existing um electrical and and well
right paved that middle area
yeah the electrical box is right
[Music]
there
here initially one of our
earli um just left that electrical
structure for kids to want to get in and
play around planting around it you know
kids are going to try to hide in there
so we are now putting a shed over with
an open floor that's just going to
secure it it's going to be underw and
keep
outside FC areas
and you almost won't notice it after a
period of
time okay you know one argument that was
made during the review process that I
did not hear made tonight was that the
the grade of the where the Pavilion is
proposed is higher than the areas around
it it's it's it's good for just keeping
track of people you know watching kids I
thought
asense yeah and as you're coming into
this side of the park it's the first
thing you see it's kind of like the
Welcome
Center um as opposed to like in a back
in a back corner where you wouldn't get
seen or used as much it's like one of
the first things you're going to see and
you can sit in the Pavilion you know
thought processes where standing in the
Pavilion watching your friends play
Pickleball or your kids or watching kids
play soccer or watching people on the
swing so you can see all the aspects of
the recreational area in general
including yeah I can actually remember
back when my daughter was really small
we down watching my son play soccer and
my da my wife left us said watch Lauren
I remember being like holy crap this see
a people and you got this little person
way down here being up high like that
doesn't make sense to me because I
remember just
yeah looking for the The
Familiar was bleach one time the old
Snack Shack and the old Snack Shack yeah
which is out back here now yeah they've
done a nice Shob with that that yeah oh
nice was really decrepit
before questions no I'm just
absorbing
question Mr uh no answer my question so
I only have one comment that I'm going
to thr as as a
fre as you see there's only four of us
tonight and Jon is all that we're going
to S as a seat tonight okay this
requires a yes of four people tonight
we're actually be contributing a few
people for a seat on the board and so
the next time we meet we should have
hopefully five people so one person
could vote nay and for yay and you would
get it but tonight
if three voted yay and one voted n it
wouldn't pass so I'm just throwing that
out there I'm not saying I don't know
what these people are thinking right now
I'm just Le out there that there is a
situation where you do have to have four
votes to pass and vote and next time we
meet I'm being hopeful that either or
Dave or be a full SE or an alternate one
we have five people sit here which would
give
you just better odds so you could leave
that tonight have a vote next time we
get together or we can go ahead and vote
tonight I'm just throw that out there
would be one month ahead so we'd have to
go another month has to be posted and
has to be it would probably be on a
Tuesday night again only because I have
more to finance every Wednesday night
until we pass the budget town
so so anyways um just want to throw that
out there I'm not saying what you should
or shouldn't do but well my only thought
is I know Planning and Zoning I we and
we'll know over the next week that we
have addressed we I believe all the
comments that were outstanding per last
we we entered the Planning and Zoning
process was that in December early
December so we are on an extension right
now okay and the extension I had asked
for I want to say at the February
meeting was about
355 so I don't know if that puts can do
two extensions or is that as um for
already on extension for
that so would you be would they be
better off just having a vote SE if the
vote doesn't go through they would have
to come back again would it be next
month they could come back I don't think
there's an appeal so there's no appeal
you get what you get tonight or you put
it take ask is that true Jim like if
they made changes say didn't say didn't
pass for some reason tonight is there
things that they can do to change the I
bring it back and bring it back or is it
it could with the way the statute breeds
it's is that the board do not have not
um required to hear an
application sooner than six
months if it's unless it's
substantially different and that leaves
a lot of discussion it's just doesn't
say they can they don't have to okay
um which is different than than some
other approach so it's so it's it's not
very restrictive I mean if you you know
if somebody just kept on coming and you
want you know didn't want to entertain
their
application every month you know you
have that in the statute fall back on
but it's not a requirement
that wait six months we're at the end of
our planning and only time
yeah so I I think yeah we think we need
to move forward because after this we
have because of the state Grant we have
to go through our feeds that also have
to be coordinated with the
state that until we get zoning over a
year
construction sales for equipment and
stuff that we're trying
to next mon I app it sounds yeah had we
applied a month ago it but we would
already we already knew we were coming
to planning zoning next
week um with the changes it just took us
allowed to get all our changes um in
order but I don't think we can wait
another month uh just for what we have
to do next okay so it's a vot time so I
think we have to just
take chances all right okay so I'm gon
to go ahead and call this clo this
meeting to a close and open up the
regularly scheduled um special meeting
agenda uh so we will call that for order
at uh
7:42 um
and what we need to do right away is to
se um an alternate so that we'll have
quum so anybody make a motion to
seat to seat Ross as an and cther will
second it and we have any discussion all
those in favor all okay so Jon is our
all for tonight so we have for very good
um are there any other additions to any
auditions to the agenda for
tonight okay great uh public
speak good
um Jim would the appropriate time for
public speak for candidates be at the
time in the agenda but not now during
public speak right it would be when we
actually get to that line agenda yes
good now is the time to
discuss among those for application
and go to okay so once again I'll just
read the application as it is the
application from the town of Andover
acting through the and field committee
application for the town of
Andover um is seeking the reduction in
the front a set back from
1533 as to allow for instruction of
rilan part of which include fre cours
cours two place gapes and other inal
improvements uh so I a
motion allow the
variance he Joan thank you very much we
have a
second Fred Oliver seconds in
discussion okay all those in favor say
yay all those
and
abstainers thank you so much you R the
dice I
had thank you so much thank you so much
for all that great information you're so
excited to have and start I'm
excited yeah yeah be great everybody
should be excited yeah it's really young
and old right it's a great thing for the
town another gr thing for the town did
they raise the grade of the pickle ball
courts or is it going to be down
basically on you have to keep it at the
same that hold FL storage you so much
built and stuff in there after the with
the fres it okay well I think looking
ahead if I can eventually The Long Hill
bridge will be expanded right so we have
this issue with flooding now but bottom
necks there so it makes every come back
yeah back bottom Neck Bridge is high now
oh Bridge be
wider go from 40 to
80t
right7 regimen and that those courts
could be had a silty for a while yeah
the spring might be muddy but I mean
having the walkway we're just going to
have to see I mean I know that the
soccer fields that walk around Court
used to get flooded and I think
get washed out and get washed out into
the field until they did that we did it
in 16 I think yeah and now it's fine I
mean it gets flooded and it dries
out right yeah because we didn't have
the money and the next year we did so we
hope it's a temporary issue that you
know there're still in mud and the burn
um that from the between the river and
the that area um it allows the when the
water bottlenecks up in there the water
kind of comes up and then it goes down
there's no actual flow so um yeah for
the next couple of years I mean for 2025
I mean we'll be in construction hope to
be done by the end of the year so 2026
we'll have a drive and then 2027 they'll
be on the bridge and there'll be less
and less impact to the area
so well thank you very much thank you
let you guys go thank you everybody time
volunteer what keeps America and over
great thank you for all the work you've
done putting this
together it's we've gone
through great it's a great process
though I mean our committee is really we
really kind of come together and you
have a a a playground committee there's
the fundraising committee there's the
planning anding committee and the pick
so there there's so many moving parts
and everybody wants their part but we've
all really just kind of like tried to
share the money share the support and
try to make sure it's great for
everybody and it's yeah really inclusion
has been probably the top item make sure
that everyone has something that
being on
the hand ability to Pavilion
so excited yeah it's a long slow process
it soccer fields were like
decades all time
one it's everybody says the same thing
that they're the best soccer field
around watch lot
gamesack
always well kept nice to
hear afid would be
all right so next on our agenda thank
um we are very happy that the is part of
our community she has so much conning to
the town and she would
be guys
than so we have also appreciate that
the
uh so we have a VY fil right now and
just every else year we have three
candidates and
um not down of school but we have like d
he the fire department he never ever
ever comes because he in the fire
department and I got once because I said
date I got a very important meeting and
you please just go to yourart meeting
late he
go that we me late you never got into
but anyways um my hope is to get a full
full packed Board of two alternates at
least for and um I think possibly a
third that's what Jim's checking on
right now if there's for some reason I
remember there a possibility of three
alats um but anyways the other thing is
we have um ELO who I'm going to get in
touch with soon and El hasn't been to
meeting
in over a year at least so I to get
signature for El like we did with Walt
wear was the open seat that we have
tonight they very aware of that um
because Walt couldn't make it anymore so
ELO can't make we have possibility
another permanent seat uh coming up soon
so whatever happens tonight just want
people to realize that um be again and I
think there's a possibility that uh even
though Dave is on as a alter right now
that um probably Place him at the next
we to after I talk to him um if we can
the
tonight two does that make sense yeah
ELO's term ends in November yeah yeah
his term is November but like I say he
doesn't come i' love to full
time right now he's to let me know how
many Alters we can actually have and
then want maybe just stand up and just
give us some short
brief um you know background why you did
and all that sort of thing
um so Jim is looking uh open up
first
excuse um know Dave H I've been a
resident for 25 years um previously I
served on this board as an alternate I
was also so um member of the board of
Finance to the term in that uh so I have
a good track record of making
reads or at least letting the chair know
I'm going to be absent you know so they
call my background this Zing is pretty
extensive uh I've been in real
estate investment development for 30
years I've done a lot of different
zoning projects from changing things
from residential to
commercial additions set back I mean you
name it I've probably either been
involved in done it personally on this
board not that they see a lot but we did
some here on this board so
um the other concern I had was the
liability of the Town um sometimes
things are approved that could open up
liability for the town so I'm very aware
of that my goal is to help the residents
if it's reasonable request and we going
to accommodate their
hardship while the town doesn't get into
trouble would be
my desire to be just kind of
guide thank you for consideration any
questions yeah you're next M for those
of you who don't know my name is bi
gamsky I have been a resident of Andover
for almost four years now um but I lived
in maror for 10 years prior and I'm
originally from New York um but I am
also in real estate and I have become
significantly more involved in the town
over the last year um kind of starting
with the Veterans Field committee um you
know just you get a little taste of it
um and you you kind of see how
everything works and I'm the type of
person who feels like a lifelong learner
so why not learn about what makes my
town run where I'm very invested and
intend to remain for many years to come
um and yeah I would love to serve on the
board to share my knowledge of real
estate and you know also of course look
out for the town's best interest um and
I have a background in business
administration like I said I'm a realtor
currently I've worked in corporate um I
lived with my mother in our home in
Andover she's a senior so I have a
pretty unique vantage point of things
happening in town from a parent of young
children in the school to also like I
said a cohabitat with a senior resident
in town so i' like to say that my unique
perspective can lend to many boards here
in town um and I'm just looking to serve
the community honestly like I said once
I kind of got a taste of that through
the Veterans Field committee I uh
looking to see where else I could be and
where we are needed so thank you for
your time and welome to any questions
thank you
thank you and next would be
our Ross I'm Jo Ross I liveed here in
Andover for live over 10
years um I was
elected to the as an alternate to the
Zone in board of appeals over a year ago
so but I've been to I think I missed one
meeting because I was on vacation and I
let know but I've been
is here for every meeting for the last
year um so I
can't say I have more experience than
either of you you know just the
experience from being on her for year um
there's suggested training that you take
and I've I've done that you know which
was very educational for me and um I
enjoy this as you both indicated I just
want to keep and over it's beautiful
little town as well as though you know
you want to help
residents enjoy their space here as well
so making those decisions you know or
helping right but I mean this isn't a
planning committee right it's trying
to stay in the lines of what were
written to keep the towns the town of
Andover right so um I've enjoyed my time
here and you know willing to be happy
with be a permanent seat on the
committee thank you all right so what
we'd like to do is go to Executive
session you Comm maybe
just discuss
it remaining members I have a question
we can only pick one right and we have
three good people would someone be
willing to serve as an alterntive
that's yeah because actually if Joan
let's just say was eled then an Al see
is open so are you both open to an open
SEC definitely okay great and like I
said I think there's going to give more
openings some even even if I say didn't
you know long perod of time is thing
is yeah he has something he
really
wow at least so I've seen in a couple
senior lunches
the P three months or so I go with my
mom especially after my dad started
going with her now she's like into
everything on her own which is great
those
are all right so yeah can go
ahead those are mine
I know
missing I guess everybody is
here's
one okay so section 85
[Music]
buildings are we in executive session oh
yes that pause
thank
you so um the way we look at it J is
your turn would end if you took Walter
wear's vacancy yeah you're done in
November okay and you'd have to run for
El again but if you stayed as an
alternate the way you are right now your
turn goes to 2027 we don't lose you and
the value that you bring to this board
so we thought it would better to keep
you as an alternate and then place 2027
than the possibility of losing you in
November of this year so we hope that's
agreeable to you that's the way we voted
for that so and then we don't contradict
the will of the voters too put you on
here for that they put you on 27 you can
lose that if we voted you as Walter
weare's replacement then you're gone
November unless you run again and we
could not win we keep you keep you
longer another seat opens up can always
look at that again um so then we
obviously have uh alite and impermanent
and we thought Dave because of your
experience before you would make um a
good easy fit right into a permanent
member and you as an alternate member
and hopefully that's acceptable to
everybody again I'm going be looking at
ELO uh in the future and so it could be
opening did you say his ter is also this
fall no ELO yeah El is 2025 yeah also
Dave if you say if you decide to accept
you'll be up in November too right
positioning right now his his position
does end in November it's the only thing
so as the alternate though we're going
to explore what we can make that term we
don't know legally how long we can make
that term because the open seat that's
not even being replaced by now so that
alternate seat maybe go to the 2027
election or
we we don't know what that turn would be
but that alternate position could
actually be longer than the permanent
position which goes in
November so that's kind of where we're
at right now with all of our think
wasn't we valued any one
left so I don't know how you feel about
that position but that is a November
seat that W to we vacated so you have to
leun for office in November yeah as a
current I start buying for
no is that agreeable to
everybody and Jim are you g to tell
them there's some
requirement oh there are requirements I
mean I didn't find out till I was almost
n months even as alter when you serve on
any boards even as a non-paying position
you do have to go through SE harassment
training I did that actually and you did
that that's excellent so you probably
may have done
but I can't find my records that
I back as I did it
forc here just like a month
ago the only other thing is there's also
um so many uh you know every year they
want you take some level of you know
they have classes online they have you
kind of have them all over the place
just something that's um pertains to
some to Ty job that we do here there's
all different kinds of classes that
would
qualify um and so as long you get how
many I believe it's four like credit
hours credit hours New Years yeah or any
other year I'm not sure I think it's
four credit hours period isn't it no no
it's it's either every year least every
but I think it's every other year
actually I think it's been changed
anyway you can get the training through
uh clear at Yukon yeah there's a lot go
online there's a ton of it so
sometime you know
tomorrow Shar the Yukon training is free
I believe I'm pretty sure free yeah I
went through some of that that's great
if there's cost the town is prepared to
yeah the town always pays Town pays for
it too so would you just like look at I
didn't recall seeing any of that on our
town website like where
the plan okay
and okay I could
there is a work coming on ours there's
land use commissioner let me go back to
it so I get right
[Music]
commissioner is Our Land
attorney was about two years ago Jim
that's out there right it's it's uh it
might actually the recording was done
but our then us attorney came in he
talked to us for about two hours CU we
had a fairly new board at the time and
he was just like so clear like he was
he's a very good speaker
R yeah and um boy he did a great job of
like putting things L's turns and like
helping us all understand it and really
feeling in and what it means you know
what a hardship is and isn't type of
thing you know um because really only
supposed to approve hardships so um I
guess this kind of becomes a little
ulous what hardship really is
mine what El says unique hardship unique
which is demon yeah so um anyways and
then there's some things you just can't
appr period like we have one person want
to put a barn in the front yard and it
just clearly states and you shall not
have arm FR yard things like that so um
but yeah getting some training sometimes
in the year would be great and
U it's pretty easy it's pretty it's
online it's pretty straightforward and
if I can I'd like to talk to uh getting
mark back in here again sometime because
boy he did a bang up job if we could
find a video I don't know who would have
that video do you have any idea who
would have it's on it's
on it's up there so I was going to go go
through that is there any way that that
counts to I don't believe so I will
double check you don't think you could
get
oh CBA presentation by attorney right we
set
by we find out that
possed so maybe get in here it does say
bu regular members and three alternate
members yes and that's we have we we
don't know the term for the the term is
right now so does it start like say last
November's elections does it say 2025
cycle 2027 cycle just like where is that
all fall so right now you have the most
chance of having oh actually two of you
could 27 you guys term right now being
SE SE quick question um we have to
get yes you have to go and see and Carol
is no longer CLK so youd have to see her
yes right now yeah that does that work
does assistant is
that I believe so yeah yes you just go
and um I'll let her know that
you'll you're already sworn she be sworn
again does she we just kept her no we
she
was so I'll let her know that you be
show up sometime
just walked in there
yeah I mean usually there's somebody
well well I would call First okay I
would call yeah just call not that you
need to make an appointment but somebody
might not need you know but you guys are
going to sign person yes right they're
get minutes minutes have
conversation okay minutes so speaking of
minutes
um the minutes from our last meeting are
not posted online so we weren't able to
revie those and vote on those tonight so
we're going have to vote on those next
time the one from January one from
January yeah that one we that the one
that you just showed I think I us pretty
out from the last minutes that we had
are from octo online are from the
October meeting where we had a guy on 6
that owns the
uh Jen yeah okay all right well why
don't we juster I'll just refer to next
time
on that so but if you can see if we can
get those posted yeah we I we looked
again tonight and they're not out there
October is the last set of minutes
that's posted okay so we just got to
make sure that get done so we can print
them out you and vote on
them okay minutes
M
motion second all those in favor
so I have a question when it comes to
theate do we just attend
and
sorry that's okay uh yes you can attend
every single meeting obviously and
you'll get kind of what goes out of
these meetings you'll learn more and
then whenever we need you
you before you adjourn
um shouldn't there be an actual vote to
appoint the members public vote yeah
there was a roll
you just said oh we didn't actually
raise our hands vot no what you're
saying we all agreed okay so
all right
make I make a motion
to no go to um adopt our to you don't
have to vote on don't just on our new
altery and new permanent SE
um as we discussed so just we have to
have an actual vote I we did that and
you you only need three it's not it's
not a
variance so a you
make make a motion I can't do it to have
Dave be to per seat
and
as make a motion that we have da be
permanent and the be of temporary do I
second on that anybody I'll second okay
any discussion all those in
favor
okay now we
motion motion
to what else that's it all right um oh
sorry was about training yeah we
did some f and indic were sign and yes
and I did send registrations on behalf
of okay now beware that um on that day I
don't remember the DAT it's March 30
22nd 22nd the um senior center is open
and we'll be we'll have a TV plugged in
so people want to watch it together oh
great um but
I you I
it's early it's like 8:30 or something
yeah8 it's all day
midnoon probably
says
probably can we the information for sure
it's on a website it's on a website yeah
or call me or I can send out make you
send out a
notice
people I did sign up whoever I thought
had expressed an interest and there's a
book but if it doesn't come if somebody
doesn't get a book just go to just go
show up at here you wouldn't be a you
wouldn't be able l in but you can show
up and watch it
yeah when we see CED show up and watch
it sign oh that's a good point well we
we'd have to make sure the where's
moderating it
I they would have to take attendance I
would think somehow somehow we can get
their names in you
know the way it's monit is build you you
submit you submit a statement at the end
of the year that says you know yes
that's so to nobody's G to if you submit
that statement I think that will be fine
okay all right like I think I'm probably
fairly covered
but um there's
one of the hours is supposed to be
affordable housing okay fair housing
fair housing I'm sorry Fairing and
that's that is clear
on
that right so I don't think the thing
SATs on the 22nd c
faing not that I mean like you know like
you said no SP that's
that's I thought that was kind of a
weird one too for this board because
planning planning committees have to
take that into consideration more than
actually it helps us understand well
actually there are some areas of of the
law that that would come
to I I
did
housing that one of the clear one that
would come according to the clear people
yeah
what's
reasonable
only every says
J and all that makes an R sound L makes
an R
sound off yes
[Music]
we we did motion all those in favor of
Journey yeah
iOS stainers there one other thing which
can take place outside of the